Hey guys welcome back.
So this lecture we're going to do is we're going to walk through the parts of the app that are relevant
to what we're doing in the section.
And those are three different sections.
One is the explore page two is the search section and then three we're going to look at other people's
accounts what features they have and what are some of the tools on their pages that we can use for our
purposes.
Now you've heard me say this a million times but if you are not new to Instagram this is going to bore
you to tears.
Sure.
We're going to talk about how some of the smaller features or little bits might help you and you might
not have realized that but you don't have to watch the entire lecture because this is for people who
are pretty much brand new to this and want me to kind of walk them through and get them acquainted with
the app.
All right so with that being said let's pull up Instagram on both US and on our Android.
OK so on both apps it looks pretty much like this when you go to the homescreen.
We've already covered the homescreen and that feeds that we don't really care about that where we first
care about is the explore page and the way you get to the explore page is by hitting this search glass
like Spotlight glass and I know you call that Tony because I'm actually logged into the same account
on both of these phones that they show me different things so I don't know why that is occasionally
you'll notice there are differences between Android and iOS.
I couldn't begin to explain why.
So this is the Explorer page Explorer page.
It's kind of broken into three sections of the top.
We have a custom feed that says for you and then we have other little themes that you can select up
here at the top that will change all of the suggested videos below.
If you click on them so if I was only interested in food it would give me this custom Explorer page
of food.
OK and if I said for you that kind of takes me back to that first screen I saw.
Now if you look down here it's it's kind of a collage of images videos and then also sprits in Instagram
live videos and TV.
So as I'm recording this TV is relatively new and that's why they're trying to push people really hard
to check it out.
It's always at the top right corner as I'm seeing and right now I guarantee you when you watch this
it's probably change the explore page is one of the sections that Instagram changes more often than
any other section.
So keep that in mind.
It doesn't really matter.
Honestly we don't even use this very often.
I think the only time we'll use the explore page is if for instance we're looking at competitors or
people we want to network with in our space.
We'll start following them and then naturally they'll start popping up on our explore page.
Now these videos you see here are based on a number of things that's based on what they think your interests
are.
It's based off of who is popular and then it's based off of who you follow.
So of all your followers the most popular posts those will pop up.
You also see things from celebrities and people have multi million dollar accounts so those get showed
pretty much everywhere.
Once you get to the point we have a really really large account.
You can actually start getting placement on anyone's Explorer feed even if they're not following you
and that's just another inflection point in your growth.
But that's going to take a long time for you ever get there.
But what this is useful for is when you're following people in your space you can very easily come here
and find posts that are worth posting.
Now this is obviously the section or really care about that.
But later on we'll talk about reposting and doing shout outs and it's a really good idea to keep tabs
on other people in your space.
What are they posting that performs really well and what might fit well with your audience specifically.
Later on we'll get to a point where we don't have to make our own content.
We can repost other people's stuff and it's a great way of setting up a reciprocal relationship between
you and that account.
But then also you know your audience likes to see new stuff.
So yeah that's pretty much the extent of the explore page and what we care about.
Now if you go up this search right here what's going to happen is it's going to give you top people
tags and places.
Now what's gonna happen on top is it's just going to give you a suggested list of accounts based on
what you've searched before or the theme of your account or what you're interested in.
It gives you the suggested accounts and that is a pretty useful way as a consumer to find accounts that
might interest you.
This sometimes helps us in the sense that if we're trying to find a bunch of accounts that might be
in our space it'll give us some suggestions and sometimes that can save you some work and then both
That just shows recent searches you've made and that's really only useful to go back and find somebody
you've searched for in the past.
Now if I got to people is going to tell us basically the same thing as opposed to top shows us the suggested
hashtags locations and accounts.
People is just going to show us people.
OK.
You notice right here when you have these rings around the logo see it round.
Pfizer actually if I press that it'll take me to their story.
Now just a quick and easy way to access their stories to see what the accounts about without having
to actually jump into their page.
Then if you go to tags.
Don't be too confused by what tags are tag our hashtags.
So these are the top hashtags.
OK.
Now you'll notice if we go up to the top and search for something so if I said let's you know this is
something that's relevant to my account let's say innovation and Android will say technology she'll
notice on top it'll show us you know feet of the top accounts hashtags and places that are related to
that term I put in to get people to show me the top accounts that are based on that term and top is
just generated by.
Usually it's the number of followers and the engagement rate they have and then also I think it's a
basic kind of suggestion tool for is it related to your account.
So sometimes a bump them up if it's more related to your account like for instance I said innovation.
And then we go to tech formation and tech formation that doesn't innovate.
It only has it in its subtitle but I think it bumped it up because it knows in the past I've interacted
with this account.
Now if you go to tag's it'll show me the top tax and it'll show me pretty much immediately how many
posts they have.
And then in some cases it'll say if one of your followers follows that hashtag I personally hate that
that's super annoying.
I don't know how many people follow technology but instead I know that John Kerry has followed this
great.
That's not useful for me.
But you can click through and then see.
Yeah.
$7.9.
OK so when you go to the hash tag pages you find hash tags is a very very useful way to not only find
accounts to interact with but also to find people to reach out to.
Also it's a great way of figuring out who is posting in your space and who was popular the popular ones
are going to be showing up higher on these pages so we'll just go through what the screen looks like.
Really quickly.
So we have right here with the red circle around the image that is going to be all of the top stories
for this hashtag.
So if you looked at technology it's going to be a smorgasbord of anybody who posted with this hash tag
either on their story or just their account and it's going to basically rank them based on popularity.
Then I can follow these hashtags if I want.
If I had the downward arrow I can see suggested similar hashtags.
That's incredibly useful not only for hash tag research but for finding more people in your space.
Now we're going on here we have the section which is broken down into essentially two different sections
one we have related.
So that's going to tell us coheres related hashtags that are similar.
You know some of these aren't really that similar like unbox therapy.
I mean that's not it's popular for unbox therapy type videos that use technology that's not all they
do but it's a great way to kind of figure out some other places you can bumble around and gather data
on.
Then down here we have posts and there are Ogleby videos or lives or even just images and they're gonna
be divided by top and recent.
OK.
Now when do we get into the hash tag section.
We'll talk about the difference between these two whenever you post something and your Tatchell with
a hash tag it's automatically going to show up in recent.
But you'll notice very quickly socially large hashtags that refresh this page see in the last one and
a half seconds I already had two more posts that have technology as its hash tag.
So you don't get a lot of attention on this list and so the goal is essentially to pick hash tags you
think give a good chance of getting to the top because top ones don't want to refresh this.
It doesn't automatically change everything.
Kind of the same this doesn't change as much.
It's also the first screen that people see.
So that's kind of a big deal.
All right so that's pretty much what the hash tag pages look like.
So if we exit out we'll go to the places tag and the places tag is pretty much the same thing that the
pages are.
So let's look at London.
And over here we'll look at New York it works pretty much the same thing it just has a little map feature
and then also we have top stories from the area which personally I think are fascinating sometimes.
And then we have the top and recent posts.
If you are using location tags This is another way of checking this space so if for instance your account
was a like a local business this could be very useful to find other accounts that post in this area
typically because they are also either in that area or they're doing something that's topical with that
space.
Either way it's also a great way to find people who follow these hashtags.
So if I were to click through to someone's account in this space then I can see that hey this person
might actually follow this hashtag.
OK so there is the search functions.
The last thing I want to show you is we just want to dive into someone else's account.
And so you can see very quickly what that looks like so let's go to Samsung planet over here and we'll
get to this 3-D printing and technology person over here.
OK.
So this is what the other person's account looks like and I'm sure you've seen this if you spent any
time on Instagram.
Up at the top we see the total post.
We have total followers.
Then we have how many people they are following.
And we have their descriptions their captions their not their user names of their regular names their
categories even if they're categorized into a category we have calls to action we have any story highlights
that they've made or even IGY TV if they do that.
And then down here we have their actual post.
Now you can obviously click through to their actual posts and this is a great way of figuring out OK
if my account is about let's say technology over here on Samsung.
They can very easily look and see who is commenting on this and this gives me a great way of seeing
these people are engaged with technology accounts it's very easy to find that I can also just look at
their likes by clicking on their likes and I can see OK these are people that I might want to target
with my post by tagging them or following them or shouting out to them or anything like that.
Now if you go back you can click on their followers right here and I'll give you a list of their followers
and this is honestly a great way to get people's attention.
And you already know that they're interested in this account and probably interested in the theme of
the account so I could just go down here and click follow a bunch of times and that's a great way of
actually getting attention now.
Keep in mind you obviously want to do this in a smart way and we'll cover this later on when you get
into growth schedules and growth habits.
It's a great way of getting followers but you have to kind of pace yourself and be smart about it.
Now there's two more things though I'll show you and that is if you follow someone you follow then all
of a sudden you should be able to message them.
Now I can actually follow them because I've hit my limit for followers for the day.
But typically you notice it flashes when I hit follow a message for a second.
That's usually what it says.
And then you can actually message someone and that's a great way of reaching out to them.
You have to follow them first though.
They're leaving on a show you this is down arrow and it works the same way as the other down arrows.
We were looking at it will show you suggested accounts.
Now this is what you would think a very small feature but this is incredibly useful.
Right.
Like if I wanted to do a campaign or I was reaching out to people who post about Samsung phones and
I click that button it's just doing all the work for me.
These are all Samsung account Samsung Galaxy Bayda Samsung lifestyle Samsung Galaxy fans and on Beta.
These are all basically perfectly curated for what I'm looking for.
So when you are looking for people in your space that's going to be doing a section will be listing
off people so that we can keep tabs on them see what content they're posting what works and then we
eventually reach out to them.
This is probably the fastest way you can do it.
You find one account that you think really really fits your space and then you just go and have a downer
and look at the suggested in some of these might not necessarily be perfect but if you find one that
does fit like let's say for you know let's say 3D printing 101 we're doing a 3-D printing account we
can click that come through and voila we can actually do this again.
Now it's going to give me probably similar searches but it's slightly different.
So we'll find some more.
And that's another way of kind of cross-referencing or spreading your net into different places.
Now this cracks me up.
I didn't even play on this but they are re posting one of our posts as you can see the innovation station
logo at the bottom.
And they did not give us actually any attribution which I think is pretty funny so I'll post on there
and tell them hey you should probably say who we are.
All right guys that pretty much sums it up.
We have the search explore page that's useful occasionally for keeping tabs on the content of the people
you follow.
Didn't we have the actual search function which is pretty useful.
You're going to use that constantly to find new accounts especially if you're hunting for content or
just for accounts to reach out to.
And then the last thing is the individual people's pages really only thing that matters there is that
you can click to go on their pages and see their followers or see their likes and that is pretty useful
but you can also use the embedded Instagram suggested tool.
And that's a great way of finding accounts that are similar.
All right guys.
That being said.
See you in the next lecture.